Sharekhan's research report on HDFC Bank HDFC Bank (merged entity) is attractively positioned ahead of the new decadal investment cycle to capture a large share in the fastest-growing Indian economy. There is a strong runway for sustained growth ahead, led by large scale, strong distribution network and wider financial product suites. The franchise has always been ahead of its peers not only in terms of smoothly navigating the tough economic cycles but also in sustaining superior profitable growth along with pristine asset quality across cycles and its track record is unmatched across the sector. Customer acquisition, higher productivity gains led by improvement in the vintage of branches, sustained cost reduction driven by accelerated investments in technology, and cross-selling of wider product suites are the key drivers for sustainable growth over the medium term.  Outlook The macro outlook is positive, which should support asset quality and in turn lower credit cost in the near to medium term, offsetting higher upfront expansion cost and merger-related integration cost. The bank is confident of keeping long-term profitability metrics (1.9-2.1% ROA) with high teen growth. At the CMP, the bank trades at 2.5x and 2.2x its FY2024E and FY2025E Core BV, respectively. We maintain our Buy rating on the stock with a revised PT of Rs. 2,100. For all recommendations report,&nbsp;click here Disclaimer:&nbsp;The views and investment tips expressed by investment experts/broking houses/rating agencies on moneycontrol.com are their own, and not that of the website or its management. Moneycontrol.com advises users to check with certified experts before taking any investment decisions. HDFC Bank - 03 -07 - 2023 - khan
HDFC Bank is most likely to replace Housing Development Finance in the FTSE Global Equity indices but the eligibility screening will be done only in the next quarterly review in September.  &amp;quot;The eligibility screenings for HDFC Bank will be assessed in the subsequent quarterly review after the merger, including liquidity and minimum foreign headroom requirement screens as a constituent, as well as reviewing shares and Foreign Ownership Restriction attributed to the HDFC Bank,&amp;quot; FTSE said in a note on June 29.  Follow our live blog for all the market action  This means, at the time of the merger, FTSE will continue with the current free float shares of HDFC Ltd in the indices and rename the constituent with the acquirer&rsquo;s name HDFC Bank. This will result in no weight changes.  According to Nuvama Alternative &amp;amp;amp; Quantitative Research, &amp;quot;In the subsequent review, FTSE&nbsp;will combine the original&nbsp;HDFC&nbsp;Bank shares provided sufficient liquidity, no foreign ownership restriction and 10 percent plus foreign headroom is available.&amp;quot;  This could lead to a potential weight-up inflow of around 63 million shares of the merged entity worth $1.3 billion.  &amp;quot;In terms of impact this shouldn&rsquo;t be very significant for the humongous size of the merged entity,&amp;quot; Nuvama&nbsp;added.  Also Read:&nbsp;Merged HDFC entity could see $200 million outflow after MSCI tweak  Currently, July 1 is the tentative date for the completion of the merger of HDFC Ltd with HDFC Bank. The tentative record date is July 13. Both entities are moving closer to completing all the formalities.  For instance, HDFC has now made HDFC Life a subsidiary by increasing its stake to over 50 percent in the insurer.&nbsp;HDFC now holds 50.33 percent of the total paid-up share capital of HDFC Life&nbsp;after getting the green light from the Competition Commission of India (CCI) and the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India.  Once the merger is done, HDFC Ltd shareholders will hold 41 percent in HDFC Bank. The bank will maintain swap ratio of 25:42, so for every 25 shares of HDFC Ltd, 42 shares of HDFC Bank will be given.  At 9.33 am, HDFC Bank was trading at Rs1,691 on the National Stock Exchange, up 0.89 percent from the previous close. HDFC was up 0.69 percent at Rs 2,798.20.
After Competition Commission of India's (CCI) green signal, mortgage lender HDFC can now acquire over 50 percent stake in&nbsp;HDFC Life. The development pushed the stocks of HDFC Life, HDFC and HDFC Bank higher on June 21.  At 9:25 am, HDFC Life was quoting at Rs 651.65 on the NSE, higher by 1.24 percent from the previous close. HDFC, too, was quoting 0.6 percent higher at Rs 2,677.  Eventually, HDFC Bank, which will be the surviving amalgamated entity, after the merger with HDFC, will hold over 50 percent stake in HDFC Life. Similar approval has also come for the combined entity's shareholding in HDFC&nbsp;ERGO.  Follow our live blog for all the market action  As of March 2023, HDFC held 48.65 percent stake in HDFC Life.  In April, the Reserve Bank (RBI) of India permitted HDFC Bank or HDFC to increase shareholding in both insurance companies to over 50 percent prior to the effective date of the merger. After RBI's permission, CCI approval is another step forward towards the merger.  According to Emkay and Nuvama Research, the decision by the RBI to hold more than 50 percent stake by HDFC twins in insurance entities is a significant boost for HDFC Life. &nbsp;The management has not quantified the increase in the stake. The theoretical limit is 100&nbsp;percent.  &amp;quot;We believe it should be 50-60 percent. The Street had a high probability of this relaxation coming through. Last year, the management had explained that a higher stake would also mean higher cross-sell,&amp;quot; Nuvama said.  Second, the concern of&nbsp;a possible 19 percent stake sale by HDFC-HDFC Bank (which currently holds 48.65 percent stake in HDFC Life) if the RBI had directed them to keep their stake below 30 percent, is now eliminated. It is now confirmed that HDFC-HDFC Bank will acquire fresh or secondary over 1.35 percent stake before the merger completion, an Emkay report said.  Disclaimer: The views and tips expressed by investment experts on Moneycontrol.com are their own, not those of the website or its management. Moneycontrol.com advises users to check with certified experts before taking any investment decisions.​​​​​​​​​​​​​​
India's markets regulator is unlikely to give special exemption to mutual funds if they breach the norms for maximum permitted holdings in a security after the merger of HDFC Bank and HDFC, two sources with direct knowledge of the matter told Reuters.  HDFC Bank and HDFC - both heavily owned by mutual funds - are set to conclude a merger in the next few weeks to create India's second-largest financial institution by assets after the State Bank of India.  However, pressure on mutual funds to reduce their holdings or any limitations on increases could be an overhang on the stock of the merged entity.  As per the rules of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), a mutual fund scheme cannot invest more than 10% in a single security. However, exchange-traded funds and funds that invest in particular sectors are exempt.  At least 60 equity mutual fund schemes will see their combined exposure to HDFC Bank and HDFC overshoot the 10% cap as of Wednesday.  HDFC Bank and SEBI did not reply to emailed requests for comments.  SEBI could consider this overshoot as a &amp;quot;passive breach,&amp;quot; implying no deliberate attempt to flout rules, one of the sources said. In such cases, the funds have 30 days to rebalance their portfolio, which can be extended by another 60 days, failing which the mutual funds may face regulatory action, the source added.  Regulatory intervention is warranted if there is a wider impact on the market, which is not the case here, said the second source.  Both sources declined to be named as they are not authorised to speak to the media.  The matter has been referred to the Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI), according to two mutual fund executives.  Last week, AMFI officials and industry executives analysed the impact of the merger and how much of the stock the industry would need to sell to adhere to regulatory limits, the executives said.  &amp;quot;Considering the regulatory requirement, there will be some mutual funds that would need to sell which will create short-term pressure on the stock. However, with the prices reducing, it will create more opportunities for retail and other domestic investors to buy,&amp;quot; said Deven Choksey, founder of KRChoksey Holdings Ltd, a brokerage firm.  Funds may have to offload 30 billion rupees ($364.9 million) to 40 billion rupees of the combined company's stock, said an executive with a large fund house.  &amp;quot;HDFC Bank and HDFC are fairly liquid stocks and have a lot of demand. This will hold true for the combined entity, too,&amp;quot; the executive said, adding that funds that need to sell will find buyers.  This clause could curtail the ability of fund managers to take incremental exposure to the banking bell-weather, the chief executive of another large-sized mutual fund pointed out.  &amp;quot;Selling to meet the regulatory requirements could be seen by some in the market as a desperate act and the fund managers would not get good buyers at the right price,&amp;quot; the person said. &amp;quot;This will impact the fund's performance.&amp;quot;
The merger of India&rsquo;s most valuable lender and the nation&rsquo;s largest mortgage financier to create what could be the world&rsquo;s fifth-most valuable bank is inching closer to completion, with just one key step remaining that investors are watching for closely.  Announcement of the so called &lsquo;record date&rsquo; &mdash; or the cut-off day set for investors &mdash; for the swapping of shares of Housing Development Finance Corp. for HDFC Bank Ltd. is expected within three weeks. The merged entity is likely to trade under the HDFC Bank ticker before July 20, bringing an end to the process that&nbsp;began&nbsp;in April 2022.  The merger is unprecedented in India, creating a bank worth $168 billion and impacting over tens of millions of customers and shareholders across the two companies apart from group insurance and asset management businesses.  A central team, with 3 members from each company, and nearly three dozen committees worked on a business integration plan. Meanwhile, legal approvals were sought from shareholders, banking, securities market and competition regulators as well as stock exchanges with the final nod granted by the company law tribunal in March.  The approvals got done in good time and the integration of technology platforms is at an advanced stage, Keki Mistry, chief executive officer of the mortgage lender told Bloomberg News last week. &ldquo;The target is for the merger to be effective early July,&rdquo; he said.  Final Step  Once the merger is effective, a cut-off date will be announced to determine HDFC shareholders eligible to receive HDFC Bank shares. HDFC shares will stop trading on that date and it would take a week or two for allocation and listing of new shares.  HDFC Bank will allocate 42 new shares for 25 shares of HDFC. The mortgage lender said it will try to time the record date to ensure no gap takes place between HDFC shares being suspended and HDFC Bank shares being allocated to its over 740,000 shareholders.  A day before the record date will be the ex-date which marks the price adjustment between the two merging companies, said Anil Ghelani, head of passive investments and products at DSP Asset Managers Ltd.  On the ex-date, the HDFC Bank share price will adjust to incorporate the value of HDFC. This is important for key stock indexes that include the two companies, as well as overlying index funds and ETFs.  Nifty Indices&rsquo; new rules indicate HDFC will be excluded from any index on the ex-date and the value of HDFC Bank updated. Earlier rules excluded companies from the index at the beginning of the merger process. This changed soon after the HDFC merger announcement as the two financial majors are among the top five constituents of the benchmark National Stock Exchange&rsquo;s Nifty50 by weightage. The exchange did not respond to queries about the exclusion.
India's HDFC Bank Ltd will keep home loans at the centre of its growth strategy after a merger with HDFC Ltd is concluded, with such credit likely to make up nearly a third of the bank's portfolio going forward, two senior officials at the group said.  The pace of growth in home loans will broadly mirror growth seen in HDFC's home loan portfolio, the first official said, declining to be identified as strategy discussions are not public.  Individual home loans have grown at a compounded annual rate of 16% over the last five years, according to its investor presentation.  The home loan segment is seen as a steady growth business with low delinquencies and has seen a boost since the pandemic.  While the share of portfolio will oscillate based on growth in other segments, the group is comfortable with it staying at current levels, the official said.  &amp;quot;We see home loans as a secured sticky product which can generate sticky deposits and spur lending into a number of home-related personal loan categories,&amp;quot; the official added.  The merger, announced in April last year and set to conclude in early July, will see India's largest housing financier merge with the bank it parented in 1994 - now the country's largest private lender.  Post the deal, HDFC's 7.2 trillion rupee ($87.32 billion) portfolio will be transferred to the bank and make up about 30% of its overall loan book. This includes individual housing loans worth 6.02 trillion rupees.  The housing loan business will not function as a separate vertical, but HDFC's front-line staff will continue to lead growth in that product, while expanding offerings to other retail loans as well, the second official said.  The first official added that credit decisions for home loans will roll into the bank's broader credit department.  RUSH OF DEALS  As part of the merger, HDFC's subsidiaries will be transferred to the bank.  HDFC Bank, whose second-largest segment is its banking business, will raise its stake in the life insurance business from 48.7% to over 50%, and from 49.9% to over 50% in the general insurance segment.  Both transactions will be concluded before the merger and could happen via the open market or through bilateral deals, the officials said.  The Reserve Bank of India has also asked HDFC to sell a majority stake in its education loan arm Credila Financial Services, valued at close to $1.2 billion-1.5 billion, due to an overlap with the bank's business.  While this transaction will not conclude before the merger, negotiations are at an advanced stage, the second person said.  HDB Financial, HDFC Bank's non-bank lending arm, will continue as a separate entity and move towards a listing before 2025, the first official said.  Post the merger, foreign shareholding in the combined entity is seen at about 60%-62%, the first person said.  This could allow the bank to be added into the MSCI index for the first time since 2013, potentially bringing in foreign inflows into the bank.
Motilal Oswal's research report on HDFC Bank At its analyst day meet, HDFCB management highlighted how the bank is getting future-ready by focusing on strengthening its digital capabilities and sustainable growth after the merger while maintaining RoA at the current level. The bank plans to announce various new initiatives to provide a superior experience to customers. For the bank, technology has moved from being an enabler to being a driver of outcomes. The bank has emphasized that running the bank includes modernizing the existing infrastructure , along with building competencies and CoE. Growth is likely to be broad-based, mainly driven by technology and expanding distribution network, while improved cross-selling will further augment revenue growth. Outlook The bank highlighted that the cost-to-income (C/I) ratio may remain sticky for the near term but could decline to 30% over the next 10 years. HDFCB remains one of our preferred picks and we maintain our Buy rating with a TP of INR1,950. For all recommendations report,&nbsp;click here Disclaimer:&nbsp;The views and investment tips expressed by investment experts/broking houses/rating agencies on moneycontrol.com are their own, and not that of the website or its management. Moneycontrol.com advises users to check with certified experts before taking any investment decisions.  HDFC Bank - 25 -05 - 2023 - moti
Prabhudas Lilladher's research report on HDFC Bank Key takeaways from HDFCB analyst day were 1) Bank would protect loan growth (1.5-2.0x of the system) irrespective of its size. 2) Deposit market share is ~10% and bank would grow by gaining market share; incremental deposit accretion (18-20% market share) may not be a challenge. 3) On NIM, bank is willing to let go volumes in case of intense competition; it sold down Rs1trn of corporate loans in FY23 to not compromise on pricing. 4) Postmerger focus would shift from product-based to customer centric. Immediate benefit of the merger would be access to 25mn HDFC group customers that do not bank with HDFCB while 60-70% of HDFC Ltd. customers do not have a liability relationship with the bank. 5) Target is to bring down cost to income to 30% over the next decade (36% on merged basis in FY23). 6) RoA postmerger would be maintained between 1.9-2.1%. Outlook We keep multiple unchanged at 3.0x on core FY25E ABV and retain BUY with TP of Rs1,925. For all recommendations report,&nbsp;click here Disclaimer:&nbsp;The views and investment tips expressed by investment experts/broking houses/rating agencies on moneycontrol.com are their own, and not that of the website or its management. Moneycontrol.com advises users to check with certified experts before taking any investment decisions.  HDFC Bank - 25 -05 - 2023 - prabhu
ICICI Direct's research report on HDFC Bank HDFC Bank is a leading private sector bank with consistent growth and operational performance over various cycles. The bank has maintained superior return ratios compared to its peers resulting in premium valuations. It is the largest private sector bank with a loan book of Rs 16 lakh crore. It has been a consistent performance with +4% NIM and +15% RoE in the past many years. Outlook We remain positive and retain our BUY rating on the stock. We value HDFC Bank at ~2.5x FY25E ABV (post merger) and Rs 155 for subsidiaries and revise our target price to Rs 2050/share from Rs 1970 earlier. For all recommendations report,&nbsp;click here Disclaimer:&nbsp;The views and investment tips expressed by investment experts/broking houses/rating agencies on moneycontrol.com are their own, and not that of the website or its management. Moneycontrol.com advises users to check with certified experts before taking any investment decisions. HDFC Bank - 24 -04 - 2023 - icici
Prabhudas Lilladher's research report on HDFC Bank RBI provided certain key relaxations and clarifications to HDFCB related to the merger; which were 1) HDFCB (merged) can hold more than 50% stake in HDFC Life and HDFC ERGO. This removes the overhang of RoE dilution in the merged entity. 2) For PSL, RBI permitted ANBC to be computed on 1/3rd of loans of HDFC Ltd. in the 1st year post merger with the remaining 2/3rd being considered over next 2 years equally. Hence merged entity would not incur any PSL cost in FY25E resulting in core PAT upgrade of 2%. 3) Bank has to comply with CRR, SLR and LCR requirements. Hence, dispensation in terms affordable housing bonds may not be available, which would increase CRR, SLR needs albeit minimally. NIM impact would be insignificant. Outlook Basis existing valuation of 2.6x core FY25E ABV, stock trades at a 13% premium to ICICIB. We remain constructive on HDFCB; maintain multiple at 3.0x with SOTP based TP at Rs1925. Retain &lsquo;BUY&rsquo;. For all recommendations report,&nbsp;click here Disclaimer:&nbsp;The views and investment tips expressed by investment experts/broking houses/rating agencies on moneycontrol.com are their own, and not that of the website or its management. Moneycontrol.com advises users to check with certified experts before taking any investment decisions. HDFC Bank - 24 -04 - 2023 - prabhu
