  The State Bank of India (SBI) will switch to a one-time password (OTP) based cash withdrawal system at all its ATMs from January 1, 2020, onwards.  With this latest move, the lender aims to ensure the protection of its customers from unauthorised transactions at ATMs.  &amp;quot;Introducing the OTP-based cash withdrawal system to help protect you from unauthorized transactions at ATMs. This new safeguard system will be applicable from 1st Jan, 2020 across all SBI ATMs,&amp;quot; SBI said in a tweet.  Introducing the OTP-based cash withdrawal system to help protect you from unauthorized transactions at ATMs. This new safeguard system will be applicable from 1st Jan, 2020 across all SBI ATMs. To know more: https://t.co/nIyw5dsYZq#SBI #ATM #Transactions #SafeWithdrawals #Cash pic.twitter.com/YHoDrl0DTe &mdash; State Bank of India (@TheOfficialSBI) December 26, 2019   The new OTP-based ATM withdrawal will be applicable for transactions above Rs 10,000, between 8 pm to 8 am. Customers withdrawing cash from SBI ATMs will receive an OTP on their mobile number registered with the bank. However, the facility won't apply in case of transactions made by SBI card holders at any other bank's ATM.
Baba Ramdev-led Patanjali Ayurved has completed the final step in the Rs 4,350-crore resolution plan to acquire debt-ridden edible oil firm Ruchi Soya, sources told CNBC-TV18.  Sources said Patanjali has completed the process of transfer of equity and debt portions to lenders.  The company has tied up with five banks- State Bank of India, Union Bank, Punjab National Bank, Syndicate Bank and Allahabad Bank - to finance the acquisition of Ruchi Soya. It had secured loans of around Rs 3,200 crore from the consortium of lenders.  As per earlier reports, the total admitted claims from financial creditors against Ruchi Soya stood at Rs 9,384 crore, while secured financial creditors would get Rs 4,053.19 crore. Under the resolution plan, workmen and employees were to be paid Rs 14.92 crore while unsecured financial creditors were to receive Rs 40 crore.  Ruchi Soya went into insolvency in December 2017. Following this, the insolvency plea filed by two lead creditors &mdash; Standard Chartered Bank and DBS Bank &mdash; was admitted by the NCLT.
SBI chairman Rajnish Kumar on December 17 said it will take up to three years more to list its general insurance arm. The bank will list its asset management company before SBI General Insurance, Kumar said while speaking at the India Economic Conclave organised by Times Network here.  SBI had last year listed its life insurance arm and the proceeds came in handy to fight difficulties in asset quality. It is also planning to part-sell its stake in SBI Cards.  SBI General Insurance, which is a joint venture with Insurance Australia Group, has to &amp;quot;mature&amp;quot; and will await the valuation to touch Rs 50,000 crore, Kumar said.  &amp;quot;We are discussing but if you ask me sequentially then it will be AMC first then SBI General because. We believe that still it is about 2-3 years away before SBI General matures,&amp;quot; he said.  Speaking on the asset quality position, Kumar reiterated that non-performing assets had touched a peak last quarter and there will be an improvement from this quarter onwards.  On telecom exposure, Kumar said the bank had burnt its &amp;quot;fingers and body&amp;quot; in the past, but sounded more confident for the sector now.  He said the risk is a &amp;quot;lot less&amp;quot; now and also added that the bank is in a position to absorb setbacks, if any, in the future.  The bank is not getting much of demand for large projects given the state of the economy and the project loans are much smaller now, Kumar said.  Amid a sustained period of liquidity surplus, he said availability of money to fund the debt requirements of corporates is not the problem, but it is equity raising which is proving to be a difficulty.  Companies are facing difficulties for equity raising due to a slew of concerns, including the general economic scenario and the low investor confidence due to setbacks like losing money in the past.  Kumar said he does not see any &amp;quot;major changes&amp;quot; when it comes to consolidation of state-owned banks.  He, however, hinted that state ownership of lenders limits the discretion of the management in taking business decisions as compared to private sector rivals.  &amp;quot;When you are a private bank, you still have a choice in terms of selecting your client. In SBI, you don't have that choice at times, even if business is not generating profits,&amp;quot; he said.  The SBI chief also admitted that the lender has not delivered to equity investors, but sought the bank to be evaluated on the basis of &amp;quot;stakeholder value&amp;quot; that it is generating.  The equity valuations are suppressed because of a &amp;quot;small segment&amp;quot; not representing over 10 per cent of the balancesheet, which pulls down the performance, Kumar said.  Rather than looking at returns for equity holders by way of share price appreciation, there is a need to look at wider &amp;quot;stakeholder returns&amp;quot; which more number of people across the world are tracking, he said.  Kumar said SBI does not need any capital from the government and will depend on internal accruals and profits itself for its buffers, and also exhorted its peers to do the same.
State Bank of India Chairman Rajnish Kumar on Monday said the resolution of Essar Steel will boost profitability in the third quarter of the current financial year. Besides, resolution of other stressed assets which are in the pipeline will have positive impact in the fourth quarter, he said.  The resolution of Essar Steel is a huge positive for the economy, he said.  &amp;quot;For MSMEs, I think the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) is not the right route. It is more for the bigger corporates. MSMEs should have a rehabilitation...we are not in favour to take them to the NCLT because it will burden the system unnecessarily,&amp;quot; Kumar said.  He also said there will be money coming in from SBI Card stake dilution in the months to come.
The Competition Commission of India (CCI) on December 13 said it has approved acquisition of shares in SBI General Insurance by Napean Opportunities LLP and Honey Wheat.  The transaction involves acquisition of 16.01 per cent paid-up share capital of SBI General Insurance by Napean Opportunities and 9.99 per cent by Honey Wheat Investment Ltd, the CCI said in two separate statements.  State-owned State Bank of India (SBI) in October said its joint venture partner IAG would sell entire 26 per cent stake in its subsidiary SBI General Insurance to Napean Opportunities and WP Honey Wheat for an undisclosed amount.  The country's largest lender and Insurance Australia Group (IAG) held 70 per cent and 26 per cent, respectively, in SBI General Insurance.  &amp;quot;The agreements have been reached with Napean Opportunities LLP (an affiliate of Premji Invest) to acquire a 16.01 per cent interest and WP Honey Wheat Investment Ltd (Warburg Pincus Group) to acquire a 9.99 per cent interest,&amp;quot; SBI had said.  The Competition Commission of India (CCI) has also approved Sanaka Growth SPV I Ltd's investment in Edelweiss Securities Ltd (ESL).  &amp;quot;The proposed combination relates to investment by Sanaka in ESL and Edelweiss Global Investment Advisory Business (EGIA) subsidiaries of up to INR equivalent to USD 44 million,&amp;quot; the CCI said in another release.  Sanaka's principal activity is that of investment holding and related activities with the objective to achieve long-term capital appreciation, it added.
A consortium of Indian public sector banks led by State Bank of India (SBI) sought a bankruptcy order against embattled liquor tycoon Vijay Mallya during a High Court hearing in London on December 11 as part of efforts to recoup around 1.145 billion pounds in unpaid loans.  Judge Michael Briggs presided over the ongoing hearing in the insolvency division of the court on a bankruptcy petition filed by the banks last year, in relation to lending by Mallya's now-defunct Kingfisher Airlines.  &amp;quot;Why should we take less than everything we are owed,&amp;quot; said Marcia Shekerdemian, the barrister for the Indian banks, in reference to settlement offers.  The court also heard that the banks do not accept the former Kingfisher Airlines boss' assertion that most of his assets are in India and to a lesser extent worldwide. A villa in France and assets spread across the British Virgin Islands, a trust registered in the Caribbean nation of St. Kitts &amp;amp;amp; Nevis and the Indian Empress superyacht in Malta were some of Mallya's worldwide assets referred to during the course of Wednesday's hearing.  &amp;quot;We cannot take Dr Mallya's assertions at face value,&rdquo; Shekerdemian said.  Mallya's legal team, led by barrister Philip Marshall, argued for the bankruptcy petition to be dismissed because their client was being unfairly pursued by the banks in India and the UK on opposing grounds.  &amp;quot;Payment has been inhibited by virtue of the intervention by the Enforcement Directorate of India&hellip; the banks are seeking a bankruptcy order against Dr Mallya for non-payment but have created a situation where he can't make a payment,&rdquo; Marshall told the court.  A previous UK High Court ruling had refused to overturn a worldwide order freezing Mallya's assets and upheld an Indian court's ruling that the consortium of 13 Indian banks were entitled to recover funds amounting to nearly 1.145 billion pounds. The banks then launched efforts to recover dues as part of the freezing order, with the bankruptcy petition aimed at seizing UK-based Mallya's assets to recover the dues.  Meanwhile, Mallya remains on bail pending the UK High Court appeal hearing in the extradition proceedings brought by India in relation to alleged fraud and money laundering charges amounting to Rs 9,000 crores.  He had been arrested on an extradition warrant back in April 2017 and has been fighting his extradition in the UK courts since then.  The 63-year-old businessman was granted permission to appeal against his extradition order, which is scheduled in the Royal Courts of Justice in London for February next year.
A consortium of Indian public sector banks led by State Bank of India (SBI) are back in the UK high court to seek a bankruptcy order against liquor tycoon Vijay Mallya over the alleged unpaid debt of around 1.145 billion pounds.  Judge Michael Briggs is presiding over a hearing in the insolvency division of the court in London this week in relation to a bankruptcy petition filed by the banks back in 2018 in their attempt to recoup unpaid debt accrued by the now-defunct Kingfisher Airlines.  A previous UK High Court ruling had refused to overturn a worldwide order freezing Mallya's assets and upheld an Indian court's ruling that the consortium of 13 Indian banks were entitled to recover funds amounting to nearly 1.145 billion pounds.  The banks then launched efforts to recover dues as part of the freezing order, with the bankruptcy petition aimed at seizing UK-based Mallya's assets to recover the dues.  Besides SBI, the 13 Indian banks include Bank of Baroda, Corporation Bank, Federal Bank, IDBI Bank, Indian Overseas Bank, Jammu &amp;amp;amp; Kashmir Bank, Punjab &amp;amp;amp; Sind Bank, Punjab National Bank, State Bank of Mysore, UCO Bank, United Bank of India and JM Financial Asset Reconstruction Co. Pvt Ltd.  They have secured follow-on High Court orders to recover some of the funds owed to them as a result of Kingfisher Airlines' unpaid loans.  In July, the banks had won a High Court battle to access documents they were after to establish the true ownership of assets they believed were linked with the embattled liquor tycoon.  &ldquo;Frankly, the answer needs to be known as to which assets are that of Mr Mallya, both for the purpose of the worldwide freezing order and enforcement of the judgment,&rdquo; Justice Robin Knowles had ruled.  Two superyachts, a game reserve in South Africa, numerous undeclared high-value and vintage cars, valuable paintings and a piano previously owned by famous British singer-songwriter Elton John were among some of the assets on their target list.  The true ownership of a plush home overlooking Regent's Park in the heart of London also remains in contention.  Mallya's legal team has argued that the petition for bankruptcy in the UK should be dismissed because the banks are pursuing the same debt through the Indian courts.  The lawyers have also sought a stay on proceedings until Mallya's appeal against his extradition order, scheduled in the Royal Courts of Justice in London, is heard in February next year.  Meanwhile, Mallya remains on bail pending the appeal hearing in the extradition proceedings brought by India in relation to charges of fraud and money laundering amounting to an alleged Rs 9,000 crores.  He had been arrested on an extradition warrant back in April 2017 and has been fighting his extradition in the UK courts since then.
State Bank of India (SBI) on December 10 reported bad loan divergence of Rs 11,932 crore for the last financial year, the country's largest lender said in a notification to exchanges.  SBI also reported divergence of Rs 12,036 crore in provisioning for the financial year ended March 2019.  The gross non-performing assets (NPAs) reported by the bank stood at Rs 1.73 lakh crore as on March 31, 2019. However, gross NPAs as detected by RBI was at Rs 1.85 lakh crore for the period.  While the bank provided Rs 1.07 lakh crore against bad loans, the provisioning requirement as assessed by RBI stood at Rs 1.19 lakh crore.  As a result, the bank's fourth-quarter net profit of Rs 838 crore stands adjusted to a net loss of Rs 6,986 crore after taking the additional provisioning into account.  Also, SBI said there would be the subsequent impact of Rs 3,143 crore on gross NPAs, Rs&nbsp;687 crore on net NPAs and Rs 4,654 crore on provisioning against bad loans in the third quarter of the current financial year.  The divergences were part of the bank's Risk Assessment Report by RBI for the financial year 2018-19.
The country's largest lender State Bank of India on December 9 reduced its marginal cost of fund based lending rate (MCLR) by 10 basis points (100 bps=1 percentage point) across all one-year products, effective December 10. This is the eighth consecutive cut in MCLR by the lender in FY20.  &amp;quot;To pass on the benefit of our falling cost of funds to customers, we have reduced MCLR by 10 bps across all tenors,&amp;quot; the bank said in a statement.  The one-year MCLR has been cut to 7.90 percent from&nbsp;eight percent.&nbsp;The reduction after the Reserve Bank in a surprise move left key policy rates unchanged on December 5 at 5.15 percent.  (With PTI inputs)
The country's largest lender&nbsp;State Bank of India&nbsp;has decided to sell its 8.25 percent stake in UTI AMC through an initial public offering.  SBI, LIC, Punjab National Bank and Bank of Baroda each hold 18.5 percent stake in the UTI AMC. The remaining stake is held by US company T Rowe Price.  &amp;quot;We advise that the executive committee of the central board of directors (ECCB) of the bank today has accorded final approval for the divestment of SBI stake in UTI AMC upto 8.25 percent through&nbsp;IPO,&amp;quot; the bank said in its BSE filing on December 4.  SBI, by way of offer for sale, will sell upto 1,04,59,949 equity shares, subject to the approval of the SEBI and other authorities and departments.  The bank also has AMC business. As per crossholding limit introduced by the SEBI in March 2018, if a shareholder has at least 10 percent stake in a mutual fund, then it cannot hold a similar-sized stake in another fund house and would also have to give up its board positions.
Intense competition has seen one of the biggest iron ore mine auctions in India getting delayed, with some bidders pointing out loopholes, and others defending their turf.  The Odisha government had earlier this year called for bids for 20 mines, leases of which will lapse in March next year. The auction saw bids from the likes of Tata Steel, Vedanta, JSW Steel, ArcelorMittal and JSPL. Overall, more than 50 companies had shown interest. One of the mines alone has a deposit of about 800 million tonnes.  But now the government has been forced to call for fresh auctions, after some players, including ArcelorMittal pointed out 'loopholes' in the process.&nbsp;A report said that the Adani Group has also complained about the same.  The loophole, said an executive from the industry, allowed JSW Steel to put in several bids through its subsidiaries.&nbsp; Subsequently, the state government has brought about amendments in its tendering process.  Now, &amp;quot;a bidder shall submit only one bid for a particular mineral block. In case, a bidder submits more than one bid...through its affiliates, all such bids...will be rejected,&amp;quot; says a notification from the government.  The state has now announced a new timeline for the auction, which will now take off from December 6. The bids have to be submitted by January 3, 2020. Technically qualified bidders will be announced by February 19, and the announcement of the preferred bidder will be made on February 21.  While JSW Steel declined to comment, sources said that the company had only done what was permitted under the law. &amp;quot;There was a loophole, which has now been removed,&amp;quot; said an official.  The slurry pipeline saga  For ArcelorMittal, the mines are important to bring down costs at Essar Steel, for which the world's largest steelmaker put in a bid of Rs 42,000 crore.  It has already got a boost, in the form of the Odisha Slurry Pipeline Infrastructure (OSPL). The pipeline supplies iron ore to Essar Steel's pellet plant in Odisha. The pellets are then taken to Hazira to be used in Essar Steel's plants.  ArcelorMittal has emerged as the highest bidder, with a bid of Rs 2,300 crore bid. Though Thriveni Earthmovers, a dominant player in Odisha's mining industry, has bid over Rs 3,000 crore, the offer comes with a few riders.  Thriveni's offer is conditional, has a low upfront cash payment, and plus the payment schedule is long-drawn.  &ldquo;For lenders, who have been focused on realising maximum recovery in these insolvency cases, the upfront payment element is paramount. It is conditional on the outcome of an existing legal dispute around the title of the asset,&amp;quot; said an executive from the industry.  The turn of events will be a relief for lenders too, as things had got complicated in 2018, when Numetal - which had also bid for Essar Steel - claimed to have bought OSPL from Srei&nbsp;Infrastructure Fund. But the sale was disputed by the company's lenders, led by SBI, who claimed that SREI is not the rightful owner of the pipeline company.
State Bank of India&rsquo;s (SBI) cards business will soon be tapping the primary market with an initial public offering (IPO). Dinesh Kumar Khara, Managing Director and Group Executive &mdash; associates and subsidiaries at SBI, shared his views on the developments in an interview with&nbsp;CNBC-TV18.  On the valuation, he said: &ldquo;We have filed the draft red herring prospectus (DRHP) and after that I am under certain obligations not to indicate any kind of a valuation. We will have to wait and watch because much of it will depend upon how the market is at the material point of time, so after the DRHP seen by the potential investors and we will carry out the road show perhaps we will have some sense. But it is too early for us to comment anything on the valuation.&rdquo;  Revenue and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA) for the cards business has been quite healthy, he added.  &ldquo;We are a long-term player as far as SBI Cards is concerned and we will stay on that is for sure and as far as the current offer for sale is concerned, we are offloading 4 percent and Carlyle (Group) and us put together put together would be offloading 14 percent and also there would some primary issuances too,&rdquo; said Khara.  When asked if SBI will be considering chipping off its stake a little more, he replied: &ldquo;As of now, as of now we don't have any such plan because it is business which is very complementary to SBI's primary activity. So as of now we have no such plan further for the further offloading.&rdquo;  On monetising SBI&rsquo;s general insurance business, Khara said: &ldquo;As far as this financial year is concerned, we don't have anything else planned. Maybe in the coming financial year as I was indicating that all these decisions also are a function of the market so we will have to see how the market is. And hopefully by that time will take stock of the situation and then we will take a call.&rdquo;  On growth prospects of the cards business, he said: &ldquo;Eventually when the entities are growing, at some stage we will have to introduce them to the market. So that there should have any constraints for their growth going forward. So, when an entity grow beyond a particular size, it is always advisable that they should be in a position to tap the public markets.&rdquo;  On capital raising plans, Khara said: &ldquo;Actually we are quite comfortable we have raised 81 (percent) in the recent past. We are quite comfortable. I don't think we will have a further capital requirement.&rdquo;  Source: CNBC-TV18
Positive global cues, MSCI rejig, consistent buying by foreign investors, as well as some bit of short coverings ahead of F&amp;amp;amp;O expiry, are the factors, experts said, that kept the market in the higher territory.  After the consolidation phase of the last three weeks, Nifty managed to close above its immediate hurdle of 12,035. It is now eyeing to touch a new record high.  According to the pivot charts, the key support level for Nifty is placed at 11,967.57, followed by 11,861.33. If the index continues moving up, key resistance levels to watch out for are 12,132.27 and 12,190.73.  Nifty Bank closed 1.43 percent up at 31,555.90. The important pivot level, which will act as crucial support for the index, is placed at 31,206.6, followed by 30,857.3. On the upside, key resistance levels are placed at 31,748.4 and 31,940.9.  In an interview to CNBC-TV18, top market experts recommend which stocks to bet on for good returns:  Ashwani Gujral of ashwanigujral.com  Buy State Bank of India with a stop loss of Rs 330, target of Rs 352  Buy L&amp;amp;amp;T&nbsp;Finance Holdings with a stop loss of Rs 100,&nbsp;target of Rs&nbsp;112  Buy Adani Enterprises with a stop loss of Rs 210, target of Rs 225  Buy Tata Steel with a stop loss of Rs 416, target of Rs 434  Buy IndusInd Bank with a stop loss of Rs 1480, target of Rs 1540  Sudarshan Sukhani of s2analytics.com  Buy Berger Paints with stop loss at Rs 475 and target of Rs 500  Buy LIC Housing Finance with stop loss at Rs 425 and target of Rs 475  Buy Tech Mahindra with stop loss at Rs 740 and target of Rs 800  Sell Torrent Power with stop loss at Rs 290 and target of Rs 265  Mitesh Thakkar of miteshthakkar.com  Buy Axis Bank with a stop loss of Rs 744.9 and target of Rs 780  Buy&nbsp;Bank of India with a stop loss of Rs 72.5 and&nbsp;target of Rs 78.5  Buy Dr Reddy's Labs with a stop loss of Rs 2880 and&nbsp;target of Rs 3000  Buy Exide&nbsp;Industries with a stop loss of Rs 193.5 and&nbsp;target of Rs 205  Disclaimer: The views and investment tips expressed by investment experts on moneycontrol.com are their own, and not that of the website or its management. Moneycontrol.com advises users to check with certified experts before taking any investment decisions.​
Public sector banks collected Rs 1,996.46 crore in penalty from customers for not keeping minimum monthly balance in savings account in 2018-19, Parliament was informed on November 25.  In 2017-18, the 18 public sector banks collected Rs 3,368.42 crore by levying minimum balance penalty. This amount was sharply higher than Rs 790.22 crore collected in 2016-17.  &amp;quot;The reduction in the amount through levy of charges by PSBs during 2018-19 include reduction in charges for non-maintenance of balance by State Bank of India, with effect from October 1, 2017,&amp;quot; Minister of State for Finance Anurag Singh Thakur said in a written reply to the Lok Sabha.  SBI charged the penalty till 2012 and reintroduced it from April 1, 2017.  Following criticism for levying high charge, SBI reduced the penalty with effect from October 1, 2017.  Thakur said the banks do not levy any such penalty on basic savings bank accounts (BSBD) including those opened under Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana.  Till March-end 2019, there were 57.3 crore BSBD accounts across the country, including 35.27 crore Jan Dhan accounts, as per RBI. There is no minimum balance penalty for these accounts, Thakur said.  BSBD accounts provide certain basic minimum facilities free of charge.  For accounts other than BSBD accounts, banks are permitted to fix service charges on various services rendered by them. Banks must ensure that such charges are reasonable and not out of line with the average cost of providing these services, as per RBI guidelines.
Chhitij Jain  Strategy set-up: Delta neutral and theta depreciating short straddle in SBI  The recent rally in the market is likely to take a pause, and we could see a sideways move in the coming sessions.  Many stocks, where bulls have shown massive buying interest, are now likely to go sideways. We have picked State Bank of India (SBI) from the pack, as we are now heading towards expiry week, the delta neutral and theta depreciating strategy needs to be adopted.  Traders can opt for 'Short Straddle' and short At The Money (ATM) call as well as Put option. Generally, at near the expiration, all In The Money (ITM) options trade almost at their intrinsic value. At that time, stop loss should be at break even points to cap the losses.  What option data suggests  Option data suggests the stock might trade in the sideways zone in the coming trading sessions as fresh writing has been witnessed in At The Money (ATM) options. Close to 1,44,000 short contracts have been added in Rs 330 Put options, while the same strike price call option has witnessed open interest addition of 6,78,000 contracts.  The stock is likely to trade in a tight range as cumulative open in Rs 320 PE has summed upto approximately 40 lakh contracts. On the call side the nearest hurdle is placed at Rs 340 where cumulative open interest holds around 80 lakh contracts on short side.  Technical structure  After a sharp rally, the stock has shown bearish divergence in the overbought zone. The counter is trading far above its short term moving averages and the current structure suggests that the bulls and bears might try to maintain their equilibrium.  The weekly RSI is trading near important resistance zone and suggests that the rally might abated at current levels and the stock could go sideways. The immediate support level for the stock is placed at Rs 320, and on higher side Rs 338, is likely to act as an important resistance.  Strategy: Short Straddle (28th November 2019 contract)  Considering the expiry week and current trading setup, we have adopted quite aggressive theta depreciating strategy in a form of 'Short Straddle' where traders can go short in ATM call and put option and expect to gain the most of the premium amount as the stock is likely to close near Rs 330 at the time of expiration. Due to monthly expiry week, the risk can be minimized by placing a stop loss at breakeven points as the premiums would be trading almost at intrinsic value for ITM options.  Sell Rs 330 Call option at Rs 5.65 Sell Rs 330 Put option at Rs 6.50  Call delta&nbsp;and&nbsp;theta 0.49&nbsp;and -0.57 Put delta and theta -0.51 and -0.60  Maximum profit - Rs 12.15 Upper breakeven - Rs 342.15 Lower breakeven - Rs 317.85  Stop loss can be placed at the breakeven points.  (The author is Head of Derivatives at Rudra Shares &amp;amp;amp; Stock Brokers Ltd)  Disclaimer: The views and investment tips expressed by investment expert on moneycontrol.com are his own and not that of the website or its management. Moneycontrol.com advises users to check with certified experts before taking any investment decisions.
State Bank of India (SBI) on&nbsp;November 22&nbsp; said it has raised Rs 3,813.60 crore through perpetual bonds to fund its business growth.  The Committee of Directors for Capital Raising today accorded approval for allotment of 38,136 non-convertible, taxable, subordinated, unsecured Basel III compliant AT1 bonds in the nature of debentures of face value of Rs 10 lakh each, SBI said in a regulatory filing.  It will bear coupon rate of 8.50 per cent with call option after 5 years or any anniversary date thereafter, aggregating to Rs 3,813.60 crore to the bond subscribers, it added.  Under the Basel-III norms, AT-1 bonds come with loss absorbency features, meaning that in case of stress, banks can write off such investments or convert them into common equity if approved by the Reserve Bank of India.  AT-1 bonds qualify as core or equity capital.
A day after the Reserve Bank decided to refer crippled Dewan Housing Finance to insolvency courts, State Bank of India Chairman Rajnish Kumar said banks expect specified timelines of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code be adhered to in this case.  The Mumbai-headquartered pureplay mortgage lender has become the first NBFC or housing finance company to go for bankruptcy resolution.  &amp;quot;It is just taken to NCLT process, so whatever happens for the NCLT process, the same process will be followed here. There is a 330-day timeline that is also an extended timeline otherwise normally it should happen in 180 days. That is what the intent of IBC process, so let us hope those timelines are adhered to,&amp;quot; he told reporters here.  Last Friday, the government had notified Section 227 of the IBC empowering the RBI to refer financial sector players like NBFCs and HFCs, but excluding banks, with assets worth of at least Rs 500 crore to insolvency courts.  As of July 2019, the beleaguered home financier owes Rs 83,873 crore to banks, the National Housing Board, mutual funds and bondholders/retail bondholders. Of this secured debt is Rs 74,054 crore and Rs 9,818 crore is unsecured.  SBI is one of the lenders to DHFL. Most banks have or are going to declare DHFL account as NPA in the third quarter.  DHFL lenders were working on a resolution plan to pick up 51 per cent in the company by converting a part of their debt into equity. But the plan was yet to be formally cleared.  Talking about the decision of the Union Cabinet for the telecom sector, Kumar said this is a very important sector for the economy.  It is important that the sector is healthy, he added.  The government on Wednesday doled out a Rs 42,000 crore relief to debt-laden telecom companies after it agreed not to take any payments for spectrum they use for the next two years.
Largest lender SBI does not &amp;quot;mind&amp;quot; its lower stock valuation compared to leaner private sector players due to state ownership and social sector focus, but admitted that it needs to improve on commercial decisions.  Speaking at an event organised by former Sebi chief M Damodaran here on November 21, Arijit Basu, a managing director at SBI, also conceded that the bank has erred on some business decisions and cannot attribute those to social compulsions.  SBI's market capitalisation on Friday stood at a low Rs 2.95 lakh crore, which is just about 42 percent of private sector HDFC Bank's Rs 7.02 lakh crore, while SBI's loan-book is Rs 22.48 lakh crore, and the same for HDFC Bank is under Rs 9 lakh crore.  &amp;quot;If our market cap is slightly lower...we do not mind that. We are absolutely fine with that,&amp;quot; Basu said and partly blamed it on government ownership, which plays an important part in the market's calls on valuations and asserted that the bank is proud of its work on the social uplift front and infrastructure building because of the state ownership.  But he was quick to add that SBI is a &amp;quot;commercial organisation with a difference...we have to start with the premise that certain objectives of the government of the day and for the society at large, cannot be done away with,&amp;quot; he said, adding organisations like SBI exist because of the societal challenges.  He, however, conceded that some commercial decisions taken by the bank in the past decade have been wrong and it cannot blame the social sector mandates for such decisions.  &amp;quot;On the commercial part, as a bank we feel that there is scope to improve. While there have been ecosystem problems, we would be foolish to state that in the last 10 years, we have not made mistakes in our business itself as those were taken with no social compulsion at all,&amp;quot; he added.  Basu said there are also some benefits of the societal outlook of SBI, saying it helps it access low cost deposits, and that the market rewards the bank when it does good commercially like the recent spike in valuations after a favourable judgement in the Essar Steel case.
The crisis at Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative (PMC) Bank has dealt a body blow to depositors' trust.  It has been over two months since the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) restricted cash withdrawals for PMC Bank customers, who are under dire stress. Customers of Dewan Housing Finance Corp (DHFL) have also not been able to access their fixed deposits and are awaiting some relief.  Customers across other financial entities, be it public, private, cooperative as well as non-bank categories are now questioning the stability of their banks. Retirees being the most concerned as the events have left them worrying about their life's savings.  &amp;quot;We are seeing a lot of deposit inflow from customers who are retired and had all their savings with a cooperative bank or a non- bank.&nbsp;They are now opting for safety over a few percentage points of higher deposit rates,&amp;quot; said a senior official of State Bank of India, the country's largest lender.  Typically, cooperative banks and deposit taking non-banking finance companies (NBFCs) offer higher interest rates on savings and fixed-term deposit accounts compared to large commercial banks. For instance, while commercial banks pay around 6.25-6.5 percent for one-year term deposits, cooperative banks are offering around 7.5-8 percent on the similar maturity.  Other than retirees, salaried individuals who have to maintain accounts with one particular lender due to corporate arrangement, are also opening accounts with other banks they feel are safe.  &amp;quot;After the PMC Bank incident, one thing is clear that its not safe to keep all your eggs in the same basket. The deposit insurance is also only Rs 1 lakh as of now,&amp;quot; said an IT employee who holds a salary account with a private lender.  In another instance, shareholders of a medium-sized pharmceutical company demanded the management to shift the company's accounts from a cooperative bank to a larger commercial bank. The issue took centre stage at the company's annual general meeting, with the management agreeing to look into carrying out the stakeholders' wishes.  The RBI has increased cash withdrawal limit for PMC Bank customers to Rs 40,000 in four tranches since September and is working with the government to bring about changes in the way cooperative banks are regulated. However, in two months much has changed for its customers.  For instance, a senior citizen whose tailoring business relied upon her account with the PMC Bank, saw it crumbling down to pieces due to non-availability of operational funds and letter of guarantee. As a result, she lost her clients as well as employees who found work elsewhere during the busy festive and wedding season.  &amp;quot;How do you expect an old widow to stand up on her feet again?&amp;quot; she said, fighting back tears. Her efforts to immediately move her business to a large private bank also hit a roadblock as they demanded a No Objection Certificate (NOC) against an overdraft facility with her previous lender that is taking too long to process. She also had fixed deposits worth Rs 20 lakh with PMC Bank which are not accessible at the moment.  While authorities are working towards ending the depositors' suffering as soon as possible, it will take longer to reinstate the confidence and trust customers had in banks. Improved supervision to keep a check on frauds and hike in the deposit insurance limits are expected to be the first few steps in the right direction.
SBI Chairman Rajnish Kumar on&nbsp;November 15 said the Supreme Court's judgement in the Essar Steel case with regard to rights of various creditors during insolvency proceedings would significantly reduce the scope for long-drawn litigations and eventually lead to faster resolution of stressed assets.  The Supreme Court on November 15 set aside an NCLAT order which gave equal rights to the secured and unsecured creditors during the insolvency proceedings of debt-ridden Essar Steel, clearing the decks for its takeover by Lakshmi Mittal-led ArcelorMittal.  Setting aside the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) order, a three-judge bench headed by Justice R F Nariman said the two sets of creditors will be treated differently during the insolvency proceedings and taking over of a debt-ridden firm by another company.  The Supreme Court has upheld that the ultimate discretion on distribution of funds is with the Committee of Creditors, Kumar said.  SBI, the country's largest bank, has an exposure of around Rs 14,000 crore in Essar Steel.  &amp;quot;This much awaited judgement also settles to rest numerous points of law under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code which were tested in various courts.  &amp;quot;This should significantly reduce the scope for long drawn-litigations under IBC and would eventually lead to faster resolutions of stressed assets,&amp;quot; the SBI Chairman said.  SBI's shared closed at Rs 322 on BSE, up 5.19 percent.
A consortium of banks led by State Bank of India has agreed to provide finance for Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis' pet Nagpur-Mumbai 'Samruddhi Corridor' expressway project, a top official said on Wednesday.  SBI has agreed to lend the highest amount, Rs 8,500 crore, said Bhushan Gagrani, principal secretary in the Chief Minister's Office.  &amp;quot;Other lenders include Punjab National Bank, Bank of Baroda, Bank of Maharashtra as well as the Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) of India,&amp;quot; he said.  The estimated cost of the project, being constructed by the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation, is around Rs 50,000 crore, of which around Rs 26,000 crore are required for the construction of the expressway.  &amp;quot;We were falling short of Rs 3,000-4,000 crore to reach the target of Rs 26,000 crore. The consortium of banks has agreed to share that shortfall too. It has solved the major issue of financial support,&amp;quot; Gagrani said.  He added that banks believe in the financial viability of the project. Almost 95 per cent of the land acquisition is complete, Gagrani added.  Acquisition in some stretches in Amravati and Aurangabad regions is yet to be done.  The corridor will have 25 toll plazas, and the toll will be collected for 40 years.
SBI plans to sell over Rs 15,000 crore worth bad loans belonging to Essar Steel to recover its dues from the debt-laden steel maker.  &amp;quot;State Bank of India (SBI) invites expression of interest (EoI) from banks/ARCs/NBFCs/FIs for the proposed sale of its non performing financial asset with total dues of Rs 15,431.44 crore,&amp;quot; the bank said in an advertisement.  The lender has put the reserve price for the recovery of bad loans from Essar Steel India at Rs 9,587.64 crore.  SBI said the resolution plan for the recovery of non-performing asset (NPA) has been approved and filed in NCLT Ahmedabad, according to which the minimum recovery to the bank is Rs 11,313.42 crore.  SBI said the reserve price of over Rs 9,587 crore is on the basis of net present value (NPV) of minimum recovery discounted at 18 per cent with a time factor of one year.  SBI has asked the interested ARCs/ banks/ NBFCs/ financial institutions (FIs) that they can conduct due diligence of the asset with immediate effect, after submitting EoI and executing a Non-Disclosure Agreement (NDA) with the bank.  The sale of the NPA account is to happen through e-auction on January 30, as per the bid invite.  In September last year, SBI had withdrawn the process of sale of debt of Essar Steel to asset reconstruction companies (ARCs) after NCLAT asked lenders of the debt-ridden firm to consider the second round bid of Numetal and mining baron Anil Agarwal-led Vedanta.  Essar Steel, which runs a 10-million-tonne steel mill in Gujarat, owes more than Rs 49,000 crore to over two dozen banks led by SBI and has been under bankruptcy proceedings.  As per the resolution plan submitted by ArcelorMittal, Rs 42,000 crore will be paid to the secured lenders, while an additional Rs 8,000 crore will be pumped into the company as working capital.  ArcelorMittal's offer to take over the bankrupt Essar Steel was accepted by the committee of creditors (CoC).  Essar Steel Asia Holding, the holding company of Essar Steel that was controlled by the Ruias, had also proposed to the CoC, led by SBI, to pay an upfront Rs 54,389 crore to retake the management of Essar Steel.  Last week, the Ahmedabad bench of NCLT reserved its verdict on the maintainability of the bid by Essar Steel Asia Holdings to retake the management of the company.
There are not much of leveraged positions by traders in the market. So probability for any big correction in 2019 appears low. 2019 is more of an accumulation phase for harvesting thereafter,&nbsp;Shailendra Kumar,&nbsp;Chief Investment Officer,&nbsp;Narnolia Financial Advisors&nbsp;said in an interview to Moneycontrol's Sunil Shankar Matkar.  Edited excerpts:  Q. Auto stocks corrected significantly in 2018 and now Maruti Suzuki, Eicher Motors, Tata Motors December sales numbers added to investors disappointment. What is your expectation from the space in 2019?  A. December is cyclically a weak month for auto sales. This time it got even worse as dealers were carrying large stocks after poor festival season sales. Rural demand had been a strong driver for auto volume post GST related trade channel disruption but there are concerns building up there.  At the same time, high competition in the marketplace negates the possibility of price rise barring some on account of new emission norms. Going forward auto volume growth will remain in single digits only and pricing growth too will be absent. The saving grace for the sector would be margin revival if commodity prices remain benign.  Q. Do you foresee any big correction in 2019 after a positive close in 2018? What risks should investors stay wary of in 2019?  A. There are steady domestic inflows through mutual fund routes and that gives stability to this market. This fresh buying by retail investors is large enough to negate any sells that may be triggered by foreign investors on account of global concern in 2019.  Also, there are not much of leveraged positions by traders in the market. So probability for any big correction in 2019 appears low. Our base hypothesis for 2019 is that the volatility will fall in the second half of the calendar year and return would be benign but positive. Our near-term target for Nifty is 11,800. 2019 is more of an accumulation phase for harvesting thereafter.  Q. Analysts suggest public capex could continue next year due to general elections but private capex pickup will take time. What is your take on capex?  A. We are not seeing any such incrementally large move this time. The government would be tilting more towards some direct transfer scheme to appease voters than improving sentiments using infra capex.  Private capex is surely in a take-off mode as capacity utilisation has improved and post demonetisation and GST implementation related initial weakness, demand outlook is again improving.  Q. Which among&nbsp;largecap,&nbsp;midcap and smallcap will do good in 2019?  A. 2019 will prove to be a very neutral year in terms of various sub-segments of the market. Earnings growth of various cap, sector or themes will be very similar in 2019. Valuation differential, too, has narrowed for various sub-segments of the market.  And these two factors that mean that portfolio return this year would be more a function of stock selection skill than the exposure to a particular segment.  Q. Gold and real estate are getting few takers now. Does this mean more domestic money will flow into equity and fixed income during 2019? Also, what is your take on FII investment?  A. Falling real estate price and tepid return in gold over last 4-5 years has surely contributed to this current switch in preference for financial saving over physical savings. But still, financial savings as a percentage of total savings of an average Indian household remains low and so this trend should continue.  In terms of foreign portfolio investment, 2018 was one of the worst years. Along with equity, large outflow has happened from the debt market. But the trend should reverse as the basic reason for FII outflow- rising crude and strengthening US dollar have both reversed.  Q. After a lacklustre performance over the last few years, will capital goods be a theme for 2019?  A. The current environment is incrementally positive for capital goods companies. Investment cycle, after being down for almost five years, is showing signs of revival. Also, most of the capital goods companies are trading near their cyclical low valuation.  Q. What should investors do given general elections, global growth concerns, expected US Fed rate hikes, falling crude oil prices and hope of domestic interest rate cut in 2019?  A. Global growth and interest rate environment will remain benign. Europe is where the source of global downside risk exists but as of now it looks contained. Domestically any disruption that further delays earning revival of Indian corporate is a key concern. But the probability of these risk events happening is low. So return looks limited but risks if any, is mostly on the upside.  2019 is an accumulation year. So instead of waiting for the exact time when upside will start opening up, investors should keep investing in every decline all through the year for harvesting in future years.  Q. What are your top five bets for 2019?  A.&nbsp;State Bank of India | Short-term target: Rs 358&nbsp;| Return: 17 percent  State Bank of India is better placed to gain market share as well as key clients by virtue of lesser competitive pressures. It has better-operating parameters compared to its peers and benefits of falling yields and recoveries from NCLT cases is going to improve its bottom line and returns ratios going forward.  Currently, it trades at attractive 1 times FY20E BV. Short-term target is Rs 358.  ICICI Bank&nbsp;| Short-term target: Rs 437 | Return: 15 percent  ICICI Bank has undergone massive positive change over the last 3-4 years. Its CASA is now highest in the industry at 51&nbsp;percent reflecting the strong liability franchise.  We expect NIM to stabilise in near-term as gradual MCLR reset and recovery of NPAs will offset the rise in the cost of fund.  Loan growth is expected to pick up to 15&nbsp;percent going ahead. It currently trades at 1.9x P/B FY20e. Short-term target is Rs 437.  Larsen &amp;amp;amp; Toubro&nbsp;| Short-term target: Rs 1,775 | Return: 28 percent  L&amp;amp;amp;T is the best play on the domestic capex cycle recovery. Management is focused on the strategic plan of achieving profitable growth by divesting non-core business, tighter working capital and improving return ratios. Short-term target is Rs 1,775.  Marico&nbsp;| Short-term target: Rs 460 | Return: 20 percent  Pickup in rural demand and stable demand environment in urban markets are expected to provide stable volume growth of high single digit in parachute rigid packs, double-digit growth in VAH category and scale in the business of youth portfolios.  The stock is currently trading near 36.5 times its FY21E EPS. Short-term target is Rs 460.  Cummins India&nbsp;| Short-term target: Rs 1,010 | Return:&nbsp;19 percent  Cummins India Ltd is subsidiary of US-based Cummins Inc. It is the market leader in key product categories in India namely engine, power systems, and distribution.  Cummins stands to be the key beneficiary of rising power demand from the growing industrial activity and emerging growth sectors in the services sector in India. Short-term target is Rs 1,010  Disclaimer: The views and investment tips expressed by investment expert on moneycontrol.com are his own and not that of the website or its management. Moneycontrol.com advises users to check with certified experts before taking any investment decisions.
